this episode is sponsored by skillshare
and the first 1 000 people to click the
link in the description will get a free
trial of skillshare's premium
membership enjoy the episode hey
everybody
welcome to impact theory our goal with
this show and company
is to introduce you to the people and
ideas that will help you
actually execute on your dreams in
celebration of thanksgiving today
we are going to look back on some of the
stellar past
guests and the many different ways that
they
give thanks from practicing gratitude to
honoring their relationships
these are all great ways to be thankful
for all the positive things in your life
so let's get ready to hear from our
first guest the one and only
john maxwell
what's interesting is reading your books
and hearing you talk about your
strategies but then
seeing you come in today so you say that
you're in the people business you tell a
really great story about how one of your
leaders had walked by a group of people
and not said anything um and you taught
him you know that that was a real miss
opportunity and then when you came in
today you literally went
to each person and introduce yourself
what is that
power of connection well i think first
of all
it's valuing people
uh you know you have a incredible
incredible work here and
every person here in this studio makes
it happen
and one is too small of a number to
achieve
greatness and and the moment that you
understand that the people that you have
around you they're you know they're
either
your number one asset or to be honest
with they could be your number one
liability
but the moment that you understand that
and begin to value people
i think that is what creates the
connection
because the moment that um i think we
all know don't you tom think don't you
think you know when a person values you
and and when a person doesn't value you
and
and so i think that giving value to
people
and expressing that to them is the
common ground that builds relationships
and so
yeah when i came in the studio i wanted
to meet everybody because
you've got an incredible successful
program and i want to meet the people
who
help you be who you are i love that uh
it begins there
because if i don't truly value people
i won't add value to them you don't add
value to people that you don't value you
don't add value to anything you don't
value so
every day i value people that's where it
starts but then
every day i i think of ways to add value
to people
so i mean i'll look at my calendar and i
look at my agenda today and i realized i
was going to be with you
and i think well okay how can i add
value to you
what can i do for impact theory that'll
you know just help
because again if you're constantly
adding value to people
you're going to be of great value to
people so okay
i value people think of ways that value
people then i look for ways to add value
people when i'm
in the setting i'm looking for okay what
can i do what can i say
and but we we what we see is what we
look for
and so if i'm looking at value guess
what i'll see ways to add value to it
somebody else might be beside you not
add value at all to you but
but i look for ways and then number four
i i do things that add value to people
and then number five i encourage others
to add value to people
and i've just lived that simple formula
i do that every day of my life it's very
simple
and i try to help other people do that
understanding that if they do that
wherever they are leadership culture not
a leadership culture
doesn't really matter they'll begin to
influence and begin to lead people begin
to
make a difference in people's lives and
i think
that's essential but i think you have to
be intentional
and i think you have to be consistent
consistency
compounds
you know it's really fascinating to me
that if we do sit
and contemplate a problem we will come
to some truth
that many other people come to in
similar situations whether they're in a
concentration camp or
in a lab it fascinates me i call it
going into the river of yourself to find
the ocean of everything else
um i realized about the habit loops
i didn't have that word for it again
when i was homeless
i was addicted to stealing and i was
addicted to negativity and i was
addicted to anxiety i could tell that
and i just stopped suddenly one day and
i was struck by the thought that
if our brains are addictive if we are
capable of being addicted if it's such a
natural thing to us there must be a
biological evolutionary reason
i mean it can't be that this was all a
mistake and oops sorry about that
addictive part of your brain you know
it just didn't make sense and so i
wondered if i could get addicted to
negative things could i
get addicted to anything to positive
things and so i noticed this i called it
a triad
i noticed i had a problem and it was
triggering me i knew that word
and i didn't know that word then a
stimulus
i knew being homeless was really bad for
me my
my anxiety and my panic attacks and i
had a response
and it was stealing and then i had a
reward and
so i realized i couldn't change this
first one but i could change
my reaction to it and so i decided to
insert
writing and so every time i wanted to
steal i forced myself to write
and i did it enough and it was hard it
wasn't fun it didn't feel good
um stealing would have felt way better
but i stuck with it enough
um to where i started to get a reward
um and then i realized once i could do
that
i could start to tackle really specific
problems and get highly specific
um i look at i look at meditation i was
taught to meditate by an aunt when i was
about
12 maybe it was transcendental
meditation
i didn't really stick with it but i knew
of the concept
and then i think also writing being
creative i sang my whole life and i
wrote my whole life
forces you to be present so it turns out
if you're being observant or curious
you're in a mindful state that easy so
if you're anxious
all you have to do is get really
observant and really curious
it can be about the light in the room it
could be the smell of something
but you're forced instantly into a
mindful state you don't even actually
have to meditate
to do that per se and then i realized i
have to start taking the skill of
meditation
out how do i describe it it's like going
to the gym and building up a muscle
and if you build up that muscle in the
gym it's important and it's great and it
changes you
but unless you can put that muscle to
work in your day your life may not be
fully changed
meditation is like doing a bicep curl
but i needed to find a way how to take
that bicep curl and that muscle i was
building and change habits
and that's where i started developing
very specific exercises to
attack or change very specific problems
i was struggling with
and i continued to do that my whole life
my whole career
and then i met dr brewer maybe two years
ago
and when he saw the exercises i
developed he was like those actually
work those
actually rewire your brain and so on my
website he
he goes on and actually explains why
they work which was a total trip and
really amazing
so i'd love to hear what some of those
exercises are what are some of the
specific things that that you did then
they morphed and changed what are you
doing now
when i was homeless i realized i had two
basic states i felt like this or i felt
like this
it was open and dilated or it was tight
and contracted
and i realized every thought feeling and
action led to one of those two states
and so a really simple hack was when i
noticed a panic attack coming on
or a huge anxiety attack i would
just force myself to have a thought
feeling or action that dilated me
it sounds really simple but i just used
gratitude so i remember my first time i
tried it i was on the street corner
i liked to live near this little
flowering bush it was like my home
and i was miserable and anxious and
heading into a panic attack
and i forced myself to notice the light
coming through this palm tree
and the way it filtered down and it
looked like a lace dress on me and
i just forced myself to feel the sun to
smell the air
to be profoundly grateful that i was
feeling the sun on me i had a lot of
memories of alaska sitting in the sun
and it forced my entire system to dilate
and i didn't know at the time
what i know now you know now there's a
lot of science your vascular system does
dilate
your blood pressure does you know drop
your blood flow patterns change in your
brain
um and you get a different biochemical
release which is amazing
i felt it at that time i didn't know the
the science but i knew that it worked so
that was a
that's one that i teach on the website
and they're all just three-minute
exercises
that are very specifically designed to
attack very specific in certain things
as we try to change
[Music]
you retired at 29 not just because you
were thinking you retired at 29 because
you ran businesses you got very
thoughtful
about how to generate money and save it
how should people be
acting with their money so we get now
how they should be thinking but how
should they be
acting with their money thank you tom i
think it's a beautiful question
and i i think that's exactly what we
need to learn
because once you start appreciating your
life
shifts too for example one of the
readers on my book
she was a single mom with a low paying
job
she was working as a secretary and then
she came to me
and she used to complain about her low
paying job
but after reading my book she
changed her attitude and she started
appreciating about life and boss
and and she realized that she didn't
have a college degree
but she got she was hired as a secretary
so that's a big reason to appreciate
her boss before she was always
complaining about him
and i think the feeling really probably
came across
to his uh her boss and she got a big
raise
in a few weeks so once you start
appreciating i i've heard so many
stories i can even write few books on
this
once you start appreciating your boss
your clients
they appreciate you back so uh in my
twenties the reason why i like
i was successful was i was a little
unique in so many different different
things for example when i was doing
accounting consulting
i divided my uh clients to two groups
one
i do regular job the other i always
bring something whenever i got to meet
them just a
herb tea japanese tea like a book or
just not super expensive
so in six months i got so many referrals
from the the gift giving groups you know
i didn't
ask for any clients right but they gave
me
uh so many referrals and the second you
know group
uh not so much so uh i re i recommend
everybody to start giving more uh
something a little extra nuts
like 30 more but something to
to show appreciation and it doesn't
really matter if you're florist or
cleaners
or business lawyers or a dentist
if you start giving something you get
more
so this is the law i think if you give
um you receive more and then there is
one more extra reason to appreciate
about
so you you your life would shift so
your whole energy would be so different
and so
content and i think people want to do
business with happier people
you know people don't want to go with
people who are very depressed
so the people with the radiance of
appreciation
often attracts more people and more
opportunities
so this is not a new age or a spiritual
thing it's a practice
to to um to appreciate more so
what you appreciate appreciates and i
think it's
it's so simple so start appreciating
about money is the first step
and then start second step is start
appreciating
what you have and if you start sharing
what you have
i call it gift uh all of us have gifts
i've written
probably like half of my books 20 books
on how to discover your
gifts and monetize them because
we are born each of us is born with a
special gift
and something to be shared with this
planet and if you can find it and if you
can
uh improve it and you can you can polish
it and just
um share with a society i think um
that translates into money so i wrote
a national bestseller do what you love
and make sure money follows you
so it's very important you have to have
both
so my my personal faith a member of the
baha'i faith
has definitely inspired
this idea that we rise to our maximum
potential when we're of service to
others
and not only our maximum potential but
our
our greatest usefulness and living in
that potential and usefulness
uh gives us the most kind of
rich human satisfaction
and i know for me because i spent a long
time
when i first started getting famous
various points in time
just trying to satisfy myself and my ego
and
i was miserable in fact they do studies
on happiness and this is part of the
mental health
is you can um i'm sure you've had some
happiness experts on but they're
you know there's so many books about it
and and the whole field of positive
psychology is
really exciting uh field it just started
in the 90s and when i was going to
college
there was no such field as positive
psychology now there's thousands of
books about it and
um and they're they're really exciting
but
one of the things that is
um a hundred percent true and positive
psychology is
irrefutable that one of the worst ways
to achieve
happiness or contentment whatever you
want to call it is through
materialism and yet we live in a culture
that tells you
over and over and over again if you get
this car
if you get this amount of money if you
have this amount of
of success this amount of fame this
amount of
um a promotion uh
then you will be happy you will achieve
happiness once you get to that
certain level and yet the pursuit of
that
the pursuit of like i need to make 165
000 a year to be happy or
i need to own the new tesla to be happy
or
once i get this kind of girlfriend or
spouse or
whatever then i'll be happy the pursuit
of kind of a materialistic
uh view of happiness is um
it has an inverse effect it it
decreases your happiness it makes you
less healthy you can do
again i don't have those exact specifics
on the tip of my tongue it's a simple
google search
um and conversely
happiness contentment self in
enrichment i always talk about
eudaimonia
eudaimonia you know you've probably
heard about that and talked about that
before i think we spoke about it before
the idea that the ancient greeks had a
word for happiness called eudaimonia
which is
human flourishing you know and i love
that umbrella concept like
what creates the the largest human
flourishing let's let's focus on that
um forget happiness human flourishing
but from the baha'i faith from the study
of positive psychology
helping others being of service
maximizing
how much you matter actually
is the number one
cause of human flourishing so
i just when i kind of get into my
of like oh i'm not acting as much as i
should be
or people only know me as dwight or
i'll never have a career again or you
know i need
x show to make x amount of money so that
i can go on x vacation or
or something when i get into that whole
stuff which you know that comes and goes
every week
um it's kind of like how can i be
of service how can i how can i help
people how can i
take the skills that god has given me
that nature has given me
and put those to their best possible use
so
i let that be um i try
and let that be a guiding light in my
life
[Music]
so i've worked in the inner cities a lot
and
one thing i've noticed is that the inner
city breaks almost
everyone that it touches but there are a
few people
that manage to be so transformed by it
whether it's out of i never want to go
back whether it's it just hardened them
and they had to be smart to survive
whatever it is there's there's a certain
set of lessons that some people learn
that then propel them
so hard so far so fast out of the inner
cities that they go on to accomplish
just
truly extraordinary things needless to
say put your name among those people
so walk us through like
what were some of the key moments that
you experienced as a kid and how did you
end up interpreting it in a way
that pushed you forward even if it was
just i have to get the hell away from
this
yeah i feel like there are a lot of
moments where it's just like light bulb
click
but i feel like one thing that i had
that a lot of people don't have
is even though i had a lot of experience
seeing the stuff that happens in our
communities
i also had access to the other side you
know i got to see what was possible you
know
uh my father my father and my mother
they divorced
and when they divorced my father was
living in a separate place in my mother
and my mother was the one that was
living in the hood you know my dad was
living in a uh i guess
middle class kind of we're still poor
but he was still living in a middle
class community
and um i would go back and forth you
know and you know i had friend up the
street
who had everything he had you know the
the almost like the legos
with the big house and the the train
going through the you know the christmas
tree and like all that stuff and i used
to look like man i remember one time
i went and i was eating at their house
and i sat down
and then you know after eating i was
gonna get up and then his mother's like
wait where you going like time for
dessert and i was just like what
dessert like i never ate dessert with my
parents
ever you know so i was just like what
y'all eat dessert like cookies and
brownies came out i was just looking
like
man this is crazy i want this you know
so going back
and then now seeing your mother eating
you know cereal for dinner
you're like nah we're not doing this you
know but then
other moments happen where you know the
moment that you referenced earlier where
a
neighbor got killed i was actually um
doing some promoting
passing flyers out of the club or
something and you know we used to pay
like 100
or something to do that i was coming
home and you know we used to live in
this uh efficiency condominium
on the third floor and i see the door
open somebody sticks his head out he's
got a hoodie on
and he closes the door and i already
know what that means so i like tuck in
my chain
take off my watch put my watch in and i
walk through the door real quick and
there's three guys with hoodie on
and then i like see them and i'm like i
know in my head like what's up and none
of them say what's up back to me so
that's when i knew i was like all right
you know and i ran all the way up the
stairs real quick and ran into the uh
into the apartment but i'm like the king
of running silently with
like i'm the king of that like so i did
it really fast i got in there i closed
the door and i'm looking at the people i
see
i'm just sitting there my heart's
breathing beating really hard and i'm
like all right
and i just wait wait and i don't hear
anything so then i'm just like all right
i just go
you know go to sleep and then like in
the morning boom boom boom boom police
officers knock on the door and they open
up open up
halfway sleep and they're like you know
uh did you did you hear the gunshots and
i was just like what what gunshots and i
looked next door
and you know they got like tape all over
and on the walls like blood
and and you know you're looking like
what like was that supposed to be me
you know what what happened and after
they leave we're still there
whoever came and did this is like still
knows
and i was just like you know what this
is you know and my mother she's like
one of these people she's like the
nicest person in the world like one time
i gave my mother money money
and she like went and gave it out to
like kids in the street for like she's
like that you know she doesn't need it
she doesn't want it
she like tries to take her money and go
to africa and build wells all kinds of
stuff like that so
she looks at humanity in a positive way
and always sees the bright side of it
you know
in the book one of them you touched on a
little bit here i'd like to go deeper on
is the notion of relationships
and you talk about how important
relationships are and
how especially in the military in such
high pressure
situations how do you build those
relationships so that they're really
meaningful so that
in the dichotomy of leadership you talk
a lot about you can be too friendly but
you can also be too distant
so in a field manual sense how do i like
and i ask myself this as the ceo right
there are days that i want to come
and and play with my teammates right
like i care about them and i want them
to know that like
i really do care like as a human being
and so you want to sort of be in it some
days and play
and and just be you know one of the the
guys as it were
um but i do worry about going too far
and then you don't have the distance to
get the things done that need to be
done so how do you build those kind of
lasting and useful relationships yeah
this is
when when i say that relationships are
the most important thing
in getting things done when i look back
at my career
in the navy and the seal teams
just about every single thing that i
ever did
was through relationships so the amount
of times that i looked at one of my
subordinates
and said no you will do what i'm saying
because i'm in charge
i don't think i actually honestly ever
said that one single time
i think it was always hey this is what
we gotta get done
how do you think we should do it do you
think this is smart and it was all based
on relationships and up the chain of
command too
there was never a time that one of my
bosses said
hey jocko shut up and you do what i told
you to do
there was never a time that one of my
bosses said that to me there was
you know if i had a question if i pushed
back they gave me legitimate answers if
they didn't have good answers then they
would modulate or change
what it is that they were telling me to
do so this idea
of having relationships up and down the
chain of command
and there's a word that people bring up
a lot
and i think they're pretty
interchangeable and it's relationships
and trust right it's relate
trust is built on relationships
relationships are built on trust if you
don't trust me we don't really have a
relationship the more deeply you trust
me the better relationship we have
so how do i build trust with you so if
you're
above me in the chain of command well
this and this is one of those uh
answers that's so obvious it's it's
crazy but people actually fail to do
this
which is if if you ask me to do
something as my boss
i do it and i do it well and i do it
consistently
and i go above and beyond what you ask
and if you want me to deliver this
project by this date i deliver it
earlier and i deliver it to the best of
my ability above
and beyond what you expected and you say
oh wow
when i asked jonko to do something he
actually does it
and that's where it starts it starts
with that right there
with me performing me offering advice me
me taking what you asked me to do and
doing it that's the number one thing
if we flip those roles and now i'm in
charge of you how do i build trust with
you
well what i do is i give you a project
and instead of me giving you a project
and then saying hey here's how i want
you to do this and here's how i want you
to do the next part
instead i say hey here's a project let
me know how you want to do it
and then you go figure out how you want
to get done and i don't micromanage you
and i don't ask you a million questions
about and and
tell you no don't do it like that do it
like this i let you do it and what does
that tell you
that tells you that i trust you i trust
you and when
i trust you you start to trust me and by
the way
if something goes wrong instead of me
jumping down your throat and
hanging you out to dry and making you an
example in front of everyone
i say hey let's figure out what went
wrong did i not support you well enough
did i not give you what you needed
and so you realize oh he's not going to
hang me out to dry he's going to give me
the support
he's going to try and teach me if
something goes wrong instead of trying
to drop the hammer on me
and in order to do this properly of
course let's say you just started
working
for me the first thing i would hand you
wouldn't be a massively strategic
important project and say hey here's the
here's you know here's a multi-million
dollar project you take and run with it
i'll be over here
i trust you you make it happen because i
don't know you how can i trust you if i
don't know you
so i'm going to give you a smaller
project i'm going to give you something
a little to start on and then you do
that you do that well boom
now i'm gonna give you something bigger
and we continue to go in that direction
until
pretty much we get to a point where all
i really have to tell you is
hey this is the vision this is what
we're trying to make happen
run with it if you go if you if you
need to pass this barrier of whatever
kind let me know so i can let everyone
else know
but it's on you run with it
all right guys i hope you got a ton of
value from hearing all of the different
ways that people are finding to give
thanks in their life
and i hope that you take this day to
reflect on that and remember
that if you're filling yourself with
gratitude you're not filling yourself
with anxiety and depression
and all the other things that can come
and tear away your peace of mind
so i hope this added a lot of value to
you guys and until next time my friends
be legendary take care
as many of you know i'm all about
constant self-improvement growth mindset
and a relentless
focus on progress and skill acquisition
that's why i'm super excited to tell you
guys about skillshare
skillshare offers classes designed for
real
life and all the circumstances that come
with it these lessons can help you stay
inspired
express yourself and introduce you to a
community of
millions creative self-discovery and
expression can settle your mind and
spontaneous acts of creativity can help
break up the routine of a day indoors
skillshare is an online
learning community that offers
membership with meaning
so much to explore real projects to
create and the support of fellow
creatives
skillshare empowers you to accomplish
real growth with
thousands of classes covering dozens of
creative and entrepreneurial skills
for instance they have an amazing class
by simon sinek called presentation
essentials
how to share ideas that inspire action
if there's
anyone that should be teaching that
class it is simon sinek this is a
perfect example
of the unique classes you can find on
skillshare
you can also find classes on
illustration design photography
video freelancing entrepreneurship and
so much more
and skillshare is also incredibly
affordable an
annual subscription is less than 10
dollars a month
and right now the first 1 000 viewers to
click the link in the description will
get a free trial of premium membership
so you can explore your creativity don't
miss this one guys sign up right now